Rewrite FAQ.md and CONTRIBUTING.md (#38742)
iptv-org/iptv: CONTRIBUTING.md

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fill out this [form](https://github.com/iptv-org/iptv/issues/new?assignees=&labels=streams:remove&projects=&template=3_streams_report.yml&title=Broken%3A+) and we'll verify and remove it.
```

Author: I'm not sure if we have to give any promise since we do not necessarily monitor the avialability of replacement streams.

Reviewer: Yea, I agree. Decided to keep that part since it is in the original.

Reviewer: this line might not be needed

Author: Sometimes a source may become geo-blocked over time

Reviewer: Yes, can keep that part. But the testing using VPN/streamtest is repeated. Can probably link to that testing section.

Author: ```suggestion
### Removing infrighting content
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```m3u
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```m3u
```

Reviewer: would this be better?
```txt
iptv/
├── .github/
│   ├── ISSUE_TEMPLATE/     # Templates for submitting issues/requests
│   ├── workflows/          # contains [GitHub actions](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/quickstart) workflows.
│   └── CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md  # Community guidelines and rules
├── .readme/
│   ├── config.json         # config for the `markdown-include` package, which is used to compile everything into one `PLAYLISTS.md` file.
│   ├── preview.png         # image displayed in the `README.md`.
│   └── template.md         # template for `PLAYLISTS.md`.
├── scripts/                # contains all scripts used in the repository.
├── streams/                # contains all streams broken down by country from which they are broadcasted.
├── tests/                  # contains tests to check the scripts.
├── CONTRIBUTING.md         # This contributor guide, the file you are currently reading.
├── PLAYLISTS.md            # Automatically generated index of all available playlists
└── README.md               # The primary landing page and project description
```

- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Validation](#validation)
  - [How do I know if the stream is eligible?](#how-do-i-know-if-the-stream-is-eligible)
  - [Examples](#examples)
  - [Testing](#testing)
- [Stream Description Scheme](#stream-description-scheme)
- [Playlist Structure](#playlist-structure)
- [Project Structure](#project-structure)
- [Scripts](#scripts)
- [Workflows](#workflows)

## Introduction

**iptv-org** is more than just a repository for sharing currently available links in a playlist format. After years of commitment and moderation practices it has evolved into a knowledge base for [streams](https://github.com/iptv-org/iptv/tree/master/streams), [feeds and their descriptions](https://iptv-org.github.io/), [program guide sources](https://github.com/iptv-org/epg) and even the [API](https://github.com/iptv-org/api) updated daily for semi-automated distribution and moderation. Thus, to keep all available data in order, strict structural requirements must be followed and some contribution standards must be set. Learn more in the following topic [How iptv-org works](https://github.com/orgs/iptv-org/discussions/1318)

## Contribution

> ### How to submit a new stream?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Submitting a new stream
```

Before submitting a new stream make sure to acknowledge the [Requirements](#requirements) section and follow the [Validation](#validation) section of this Guide.

🤚 Requests that do not comply with those sections will be closed immediately!

You have several options:

- Create a new request by manually filling this [form](https://github.com/iptv-org/iptv/issues/new?assignees=&labels=streams:add&projects=&template=1_streams_add.yml&title=Add%3A+) and if approved, the link will automatically be added to the playlist on the next update.

> - Use https://iptv-org.github.io/ to submit a stream for appropriate feed of the channel. To do that find a channel and press the feed link.

Reviewer 2: This part seems unnecessary. Essentially, it's just a more complicated way of opening the link from the previous paragraph.

Reviewer: But it seems to be easier via the website for me. Can easily find the right channel followed by adding its stream. And majority of the information including the correct stream ID is pre-filled.

Reviewer 2: Well, if you had to include screenshots just to explain how to open the form, I don't think this approach would be much easier.

Reviewer: It gets easier after learning this method. 
Maybe we make a 'how to use' for the website in its repo and link to it? That way everything related to the website would be in one place. Editing channel, feed, logo, stream etc.

Author: Thing is you still can't avoid Database website unless you're willing to read CSV, so it's better to make people familiar with it

Reviewer 2: Since you think some people might have trouble navigating the site, I think it would be much better to redesign the site itself so that there's no need for instructions in the first place.

  <img width="892" height="70" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c1bee428-d8a5-4c80-b961-43f1f25e2be4" />

  Then press a ➕ sign if it is required to add an additional feed first or press 3 dots over appropriate feed and choose Add Stream.
  <img width="770" height="387" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/097087a1-da7e-4159-849d-baef552a0918" />
  
  This will submit a filled form that will be reviewed the same way.
- Add the link to the playlist directly using a [pull request](https://github.com/iptv-org/iptv/pulls).
Follow the [Playlist Structure](#playlist-structure) and [Stream Description Scheme](#stream-description-scheme) if you have considered that way.
If you're adding an alternative link please do not replace any other link that might be working for some.

> ### How to fix the stream description?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Fixing descriptions
```

# Contributing Guide

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Validation](#validation)
  - [How do I know if the stream is eligible?](#how-do-i-know-if-the-stream-is-eligible)
  - [Examples](#examples)
  - [Testing](#testing)
- [Contribution](#contribution)
  - [Submitting a new stream](#how-to-submit-a-new-stream)
  - [Fixing descriptions](#how-to-fix-the-stream-description)
  - [Reporting of broken streams](#how-to-report-a-broken-stream)
  - [Finding of broken streams](#how-to-find-a-broken-stream)
  - [Removing infrighting content](#how-to-remove-my-channel-from-playlist)
- [Stream Description Scheme](#stream-description-scheme)
- [Playlist Structure](#playlist-structure)
- [Project Structure](#project-structure)
- [Scripts](#scripts)
- [Workflows](#workflows)

> ## Introduction

Reviewer: this discussion [How iptv-org works](https://github.com/orgs/iptv-org/discussions/1318) might be useful to add here.
Edit: probably need to make some terms/words uniform based on the above discussion to avoid confusion.

Author: Please elaborate here what should be uniformed. Done in PR

> IPTV-ORG is more than just a repository for sharing currently available links in a playlist format. After years of commitment and moderation practices it has evolved into knowledge base for [streams](https://github.com/iptv-org/iptv/tree/master/streams), [feeds and it's descriptions](https://iptv-org.github.io/), [program guide sources](https://github.com/iptv-org/epg) and even the [API](https://github.com/iptv-org/api) updated daily for semi-automated distribution and moderation. Thus, to keep all available data in order strict structural requirements must be held and some contribution standards must be set.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**iptv-org** is more than just a repository for sharing currently available links in a playlist format. After years of commitment and moderation practices it has evolved into knowledge base for [streams](https://github.com/iptv-org/iptv/tree/master/streams), [feeds and it's descriptions](https://iptv-org.github.io/), [program guide sources](https://github.com/iptv-org/epg) and even the [API](https://github.com/iptv-org/api) updated daily for semi-automated distribution and moderation. Thus, to keep all available data in order strict structural requirements must be held and some contribution standards must be set.
```

Please do not write `iptv-org` in all caps.

## Requirements

Before submitting new streams you should verify the following:

> - Make sure the link has not been submitted into the repository before. This can be done by [searching](https://github.com/search?q=repo%3Aiptv-org%2Fiptv+http%3A%2F%2Fexample.com&type=code) the repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Make sure the link has not been submitted into the repository before. This can be done by [searching](https://github.com/search?q=repo%3Aiptv-org%2Fiptv+http%3A%2F%2Fexample.com&type=code) the repository or [iptv-org website](https://iptv-org.github.io/).
```

> - Make sure the link has not been submitted into the repository before. This can be done by [searching](https://github.com/search?q=repo%3Aiptv-org%2Fiptv+http%3A%2F%2Fexample.com&type=code) the repository or [iptv-org website](https://iptv-org.github.io/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Make sure the link has not been submitted into the repository before. This can be done by searching the [repository](https://github.com/search?q=repo%3Aiptv-org%2Fiptv+http%3A%2F%2Fexample.com&type=code) or [iptv-org website](https://iptv-org.github.io/).
```

> - Each feed you're submitting must have valid ID in [IPTV-ORG Database](https://iptv-org.github.io). If it's not present yet please follow [Database Contributing Guide](https://github.com/iptv-org/database/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md). Otherwise your streamlinks won't be delivered into automated playlists and won't be sorted out properly.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Each feed you're submitting must be registered in the [IPTV-ORG Database](https://iptv-org.github.io). If it's not present yet please follow the [Database Contributing Guide](https://github.com/iptv-org/database/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md). Otherwise your stream links won't be delivered into automated playlists and won't be sorted out properly.
```

Author: The ID has to be not only registered but also be valid for the feed
```suggestion
- Each submitted link must have a registered ID that is properly assigned for the provided feed. You can check available IDs in [IPTV-ORG Database](https://iptv-org.github.io). If it's not present yet please follow the [Database Contributing Guide](https://github.com/iptv-org/database/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md). Otherwise your stream links won't be delivered into automated playlists and won't be sorted out properly.
```

> - Each submitted link must have a registered ID that is properly assigned for the provided feed. You can check available IDs in [IPTV-ORG Database](https://iptv-org.github.io). If it's not present yet please follow the [Database Contributing Guide](https://github.com/iptv-org/database/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md). Otherwise your stream links won't be delivered into automated playlists and won't be sorted out properly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Each submitted stream link must have a registered Channel & Feed ID (eg: Channel@Feed) in the [iptv-org's Database](https://iptv-org.github.io). If it's not present, please follow the [Database Contributing Guide](https://github.com/iptv-org/database/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) to add it. Otherwise, your stream links won't be delivered into automated playlists and won't be sorted out properly.
```

> - Each submitted link must have a registered ID that is properly assigned for the provided feed. You can check available IDs in [**iptv-org** Database](https://iptv-org.github.io). If it's not present yet please follow the [Database Contributing Guide](https://github.com/iptv-org/database/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md). Otherwise your stream links won't be delivered into automated playlists and won't be sorted out properly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Each submitted stream link must have a registered Channel & Feed ID (eg: Channel@Feed) in the [iptv-org's Database](https://iptv-org.github.io). If it's not present, please follow the [Database Contributing Guide](https://github.com/iptv-org/database/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) to add it. Otherwise, your stream links won't be delivered into automated playlists and won't be sorted out properly.
```

- User-submitted links to stream URLs shall be intended to be publicly available by it's host and the copyright holders.

🤚 A request without a valid stream ID or working link to the stream will be closed immediately.

> - Channels falling under DMCA strikes or broadcasting copyright content (such as Champion Leagues) at any time will not accepted, see [Channel blocklist](https://iptv-org.github.io/?q=is_blocked%3Atrue) and [History of related issues](https://github.com/iptv-org/database/blob/master/data/blocklist.csv) for details.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Channels falling under DMCA strikes or broadcasting copyright content (such as the Champions League) at any time will not be accepted, see the [Channel blocklist](https://iptv-org.github.io/?q=is_blocked%3Atrue) and the [History of related issues](https://github.com/iptv-org/database/blob/master/data/blocklist.csv) for details.
```

> - Channels broadcasting NSFW content (nudity) at any time will not accepted, see [Channel blocklist](https://iptv-org.github.io/?q=is_nsfw%3Atrue), [History of related issues](https://github.com/iptv-org/database/blob/master/data/blocklist.csv) and https://github.com/iptv-org/iptv/issues/15723 for details.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The same treatment goes for channels that are known to partially or fully broadcast NSFW content (nudity & extreme acts), see the [Channel blocklist](https://iptv-org.github.io/?q=is_nsfw%3Atrue), the [History of related issues](https://github.com/iptv-org/database/blob/master/data/blocklist.csv) and https://github.com/iptv-org/iptv/issues/15723 for more details.
```

- User-submitted links must not have any effective restrictions that limit viewers by authorization, by viewer count or by designated IP.
- Test period links are not permitted.

> - User-submitted links must open in VLC media player (see [FAQ](https://github.com/iptv-org/iptv/blob/master/FAQ.md) for details).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- User-submitted links must open in VLC media player (see the [FAQ](https://github.com/iptv-org/iptv/blob/master/FAQ.md) for more details).
```

Author: Unsure if "the" is relevant for multiple questions

Reviewer 3: See Frequently Asked Questions or See the Frequently Asked Questions ;)

> - User-submitted links must open in VLC media player (see the [FAQ](https://github.com/iptv-org/iptv/blob/master/FAQ.md) for more details).

Reviewer 2: Well, based on this point, I guess I won't be able to help verify links anymore, since VLC hasn't been working properly on my system for quite some time now. But that’s okay.

Reviewer: Came across a similar issue today. Was testing links from `ottera` in VLC and they wouldn't work, but worked fine in a browser. Might be a user-agent requirement, will need to test it to be sure. Eg https://stream.ads.ottera.tv/playlist.m3u8?network_id=535 from https://iptv-org.github.io/?q=is_closed%3Afalse%20ottera

Reviewer 2: In my case, the problem is that not all versions of VLC have proxy settings.

As for https://stream.ads.ottera.tv/playlist.m3u8?network_id=535 everything worked fine for me in the IINA player without adding a user-agent.

> - In case if the host server requires a specific user-agent and or refferer, is geo-blocked or may have downtimes you should represent that in your contribution (see [Stream Description Scheme](#stream-description-scheme)).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- If the host server requires a specific user-agent and/or a referer, is geo-blocked or may have downtimes, you should represent that in your contribution (see the [Stream Description Scheme](#stream-description-scheme)).
```

- If possible please provide an adaptive link that covers every available resolution for a broadcast.
- Follow the [Playlist Structure](#playlist-structure) in case of contributing by pull requests.

## Validation
### How do I know if the stream is eligible?

> Make sure you can find origin of the broadcast using your favourite search engine or following the domain of broadcast. If you used to see the channel under paywalls or subscription offers it may likely be a copyright infringement. If you see a service with a probe period and available plans or you have found unrecognizable link in someone else's playlist it's likely to expire soon. Streams or services that have publicly available videoplayer are likely to perform publicly-intended broadcasts. Odds are your link will still be  session protected and only available to you.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Make sure you can find the origin of the broadcast using your favourite search engine or by following the domain of broadcast. If you used to see the channel under paywalls or subscription offers, it may likely be a copyright infringement. If you see a service with a probe period and available plans or you have found an unrecognizable link in someone else's playlist, it's likely to expire soon. Streams or services that have publicly available videoplayers are likely to perform publicly-intended broadcasts. Odds are your link will still be session protected and will only be available to you.
```

### Examples

✅ Valid links usually have a format like so

- ```https://cdn.domain.com/channelname/chunks or playlist or any other name.m3u8 or mpd```
- ```https://cdn.domain.com.com/live?stream=channelname```
- ```http://10.113.179.1:port/udp/238.1.1.1:port```
- ```rtmp://10.113.179.1:port/prefix/channel```
- ```http://10.113.179.1:port/play/a16j```

> ❌ Links with expiring sessions will have one or more of cryptic looking parts either in main part of the link or within arguments like so: 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
❌ Links with expiring sessions will have one or more parameters, either in the main part of the link or within arguments like so: 
```

Author: There are valid links with parameters and custom parameters that the guide will never mention. It must be mentioned that the parameter has random hash-like or numeric value

Reviewer 3: Technically if we see the specified parameters to check below it, using this phrasing isn't bad.

Author: ```suggestion
❌ Links with expiring sessions may contain one or more arguments that will have a hash or random numeric value like so: 
```

Author: okay?

- ```?nimblesessionid=21683442```
- ```&authid=```
- ```&key=txiptv```
- ```&ip=10.113.179.1```
- ```&secret=f8z1l7gk```
- ```&e=1783194414```
- ```&st=Lz1QtjfblUmkawUbk1Mx6w```

> There might be notable examples when a session must be created but it doesn't impose any meaningful limits, for ex

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There might be notable examples when a session must be created but it doesn't impose any meaningful limits, eg. :
```

```https://bl.rutube.ru/livestream/id/index.m3u8?e=2070278263&s=sessiontoken&scheme=https```

> where there only limitation is that the session will expire in 2035. You can check unix timestamps [here](https://www.epochconverter.com/).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
which the only limitation is a session token that will expire in 2035. If you encounter such kind of numbers and you're unsure about what that represents, you can check the unix timestamps [here](https://www.epochconverter.com/).
```

Author: it's always unix timestamp, no guess for the representation

Reviewer 3: Because we know about it, but from an IT neophyte perspective, that wouldn't be easy to guess.

Author: ```suggestion
for which the only limitation is expiry of the session token somewhere in 2035. To check expiration dates present in  unix timestamps forms go [here](https://www.epochconverter.com/).
```

Author: okay?

❌ Links from subscription based services often be in a form like so:
- ```https://sketchydomain.xyz:port/username/password/channelID```
- ```http://cdn.domain.com/credentialhash/channelID/index.m3u8```
- ```http://cdn.domain.com/channelID/mpegts?token=CTkHfXdAqvPcwq```

> If you can change ```channelID``` numeric value within range of hundreds or thousands channels and still have a stream then it comes from leaked account or trial period account.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you can change the ```channelID``` numeric value within range of hundreds or thousands channels and still have a stream, then it likely comes from a leaked account or a trial period account.
```

Author: Not sure if "the" is relevant here. ChannelID can be any

Reviewer 3: We're talking about "the numerical value", so adding that word is valid here.

Author: ```suggestion
If changing channelID to almost any value within a range of hundreds or thousands of IDs results in a valid stream from a different channel, then it likely comes from a leaked account or a trial account
```
You don't need the before channelID because channelID is being used as the name of a parameter/field, not as a specific identified object.

In technical English, names of variables, parameters, headers, fields, and configuration options are often treated like proper labels:

Change channelID to a different value.
Set userID to 12345.
Update password in the request.
Modify port and try again.

Using the would imply you're referring to a particular, already identified channelID:

Check the channelID shown in the URL.
Copy the channelID from the response.
The request contains the channelID assigned to your account.

In your sentence:

If you can change channelID to different numeric values ...

you're talking about the parameter in general and assigning arbitrary values to it, so channelID without the is the natural choice. Using the channelID would make it sound as if there is one specific channelID that has already been mentioned and is now being modified.

Author: okay?

> If you can change ```channelID``` numeric value within range of hundreds or thousands channels and still have a stream then it comes from leaked account or trial period account.

Reviewer 2: Since this text only concerns adding a new link to a playlist, maybe it would be better to move it to the "How to submit a new stream?" section.

Author: rules from requirements and steps for vaildation may be applicable for any scenario including reporting of dead or session-limited streams. In fact, anyone willing to contribute should acknowledge requirements and perform validation before the intention of submitting a stream and only if it's fine to submit. Both parts are quite complex on it's own

Reviewer 2: in that case, we can move both sections under the Contribution and add links to them, just like you did with the Playlist Structure

Author: Sounds complex to me, can you show me the header of the resulting change?

Reviewer 2: I have no idea how to show this in the editor, but the idea is simple as:
- Contribution
- Link Requirements
- Stream Validation
- Stream Description Scheme
...

Author: I got the point. And I'm afraid people will skip those sections if we choose to lower them in order, defeating the purpose of Contributing guide. Or they will miss the reason why PR has not been accepted

Reviewer 2: I assure you that those who are genuinely interested in learning more will find your text regardless of where it appears on the page. But for those who only glance through the guide, it would be helpful to explain at least the basic principles of how the repository works as described in the "Contributions".

Author: This way?
https://gist.github.com/Dum4G/d8ec7f90a609d0051c3486664c2d46df

Reviewer 2: Yes

Author: done

### Testing

- Open [VLC media player](https://www.videolan.org/vlc/index.html) and make use of your link.

> - If it doesn't launch open your browser and press F12, go to the Network tab and filter the search for m3u or mpd.<img width="338" height="256" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/245bdb7a-534d-4bde-af38-3a81a766347e" />

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- If it doesn't launch, open your browser and press F12, go to the Network tab and filter the search for m3u or mpd.<img width="338" height="256" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/245bdb7a-534d-4bde-af38-3a81a766347e" />
```

> Switch to Headers tab and scroll down to copy user-agent and refferer if needed (see [Stream Description Scheme](#stream-description-scheme)).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Switch to Headers tab and scroll down to copy the user-agent and the referer if needed (see the [Stream Description Scheme](#stream-description-scheme)).
```

<img width="880" height="567" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d9ea4ba0-82b1-4217-b851-bcfef94a1f38" />

- Watch the broadcast for at least a few minutes. Make sure playback is stable and not abrupting at some point.

> - Attempt to relaunch a stream. Make sure it's not looping repeating segment.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Attempt to relaunch a stream. Make sure it's not looping on a repeating segment.
```

- Attempt to launch a stream simultaneously on a different network (for example on mobile network or make use of proxy or VPN).
- Alternatively, you can use https://streamtest.in/tools/stream-test.
- To check if the stream link is geo-blocked you can use https://check-host.net/check-http and make sure the link provided is not returning errors globally.

## Contribution
### How to submit a new stream?
You have several options:

- Create a new request using this [form](https://github.com/iptv-org/iptv/issues/new?assignees=&labels=streams:add&projects=&template=1_streams_add.yml&title=Add%3A+) and if approved, the link will automatically be added to the playlist on the next update.
- Add the link to the playlist directly using a [pull request](https://github.com/iptv-org/iptv/pulls).

> See [Playlist Structure](#playlist-structure) if you have considered that way.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Follow the [Playlist Structure](#playlist-structure) if you have considered that way.
```

> - Add the link to the playlist directly using a [pull request](https://github.com/iptv-org/iptv/pulls).

Reviewer: another option to add via the website with something like

<img width="960" height="852" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/31246e54-78e9-4cd9-8afb-6ba4c49c007d" /> 

<img width="1042" height="207" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/47e983c8-abd6-4a7b-80be-1f43dffbbc53" />

Author: Done

- User-submitted links to stream URLs shall be intended to be publicly available by stream provider and the copyright holders.

🤚 A request without a valid stream ID or working link to the stream will be closed immediately.
- Channels under DMCA takedown notices or broadcasting copyrighted content (such as the Champions League) at any time will not be accepted, see the [Channel blocklist](https://iptv-org.github.io/?q=is_blocked%3Atrue) and the [History of related issues](https://github.com/iptv-org/database/blob/master/data/blocklist.csv) for details.
- The same applies to channels that are known to partially or fully broadcast NSFW content (nudity & extreme acts), see the [Channel blocklist](https://iptv-org.github.io/?q=is_nsfw%3Atrue), the [History of related issues](https://github.com/iptv-org/database/blob/master/data/blocklist.csv) and https://github.com/iptv-org/iptv/issues/15723 for more details.
- User-submitted links must not have any effective restrictions that limit viewers by authorization, by viewer count or by designated IP.
- Test period links are not permitted.

> - User-submitted links must open in VLC media player (see the [FAQ](https://github.com/iptv-org/iptv/blob/master/FAQ.md) for more details).

Reviewer 4: Would alternative players be accepted not just besides VLC?

Some extensive player list that may contain streaming playing capability.
https://www.videohelp.com/software/sections/video-players?orderby=Rating

Author: I guess no because when this topic was arised https://github.com/orgs/iptv-org/discussions/561 nobody have suggested a cross platform option that would set higher standard of compatibility. Therefore, we should double-check if any stream can be played by player as decent as VLC

### Examples

✅ Valid links usually have a format like so

- ```https://cdn.domain.com/channelname/chunks or playlist or any other name.m3u8 or mpd```
- ```https://cdn.domain.com.com/live?stream=channelname```
- ```http://10.113.179.1:port/udp/238.1.1.1:port```
- ```rtmp://10.113.179.1:port/prefix/channel```
- ```http://10.113.179.1:port/play/a16j```

❌ Links with expiring sessions may contain one or more arguments that will have a hash or random numeric value like so: 
- ```?nimblesessionid=21683442```
- ```&authid=```
- ```&key=txiptv```
- ```&ip=10.113.179.1```
- ```&secret=f8z1l7gk```
- ```&e=1783194414```

> - ```&st=Lz1QtjfblUmkawUbk1Mx6w```

Reviewer 4: Might have other Query string identifers such as token=,hmac=. Or a random long hash value.

Author: ```suggestion
- ```&st=Lz1QtjfblUmkawUbk1Mx6w```
- ```&token=```
- ```&hmac=```
```

# Contributing Guide

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Contribution](#contribution)
  - [Submitting a new stream](#submitting-a-new-stream)
  - [Fixing descriptions](#fixing-descriptions)

>   - [Reporting of broken streams](#reporting-of-broken-streams)

Author: ```suggestion
  - [Reporting broken streams](#reporting-broken-streams)
```

>   - [Finding of broken streams](#finding-of-broken-streams)

Author: ```suggestion
  - [Finding broken streams](#finding-broken-streams)
```

- Add the link to the playlist directly using a [pull request](https://github.com/iptv-org/iptv/pulls).
Follow the [Playlist Structure](#playlist-structure) and [Stream Description Scheme](#stream-description-scheme) if you choose this method.
If you're adding an alternative link please do not replace any other link that might be working for some.

### Fixing descriptions

Most of the stream description (channel name, feed name, categories, languages, broadcast area, logo) is loaded from [iptv-org/database](https://github.com/iptv-org/database) using the stream ID.

First of all, make sure that the desired stream has the correct ID. A full list of all supported channels and their corresponding IDs can be found on [iptv-org.github.io](https://iptv-org.github.io/). To change the stream ID of any link in the playlist, just fill out this [form](https://github.com/iptv-org/iptv/issues/new?assignees=&labels=streams%3Aedit&projects=&template=2_streams_edit.yml&title=Edit%3A+).

If, however, you have found an error in the database itself, please refer to: [How to edit a database entry?](https://github.com/iptv-org/database/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#how-to-edit-a-database-entry)

> ### Reporting of broken streams

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Reporting broken streams
```
The "of", in my opinion, is too much. "Reporting" alone talks about the action being made.

Fill out this [form](https://github.com/iptv-org/iptv/issues/new?assignees=&labels=streams:remove&projects=&template=3_streams_report.yml&title=Broken%3A+) and we'll verify and remove it.

The only thing before publishing your report is to make sure that:

- The link is still in our playlists. You can verify this by [searching](https://github.com/search?q=repo%3Aiptv-org%2Fiptv+http%3A%2F%2Fexample.com&type=code) the repository.
- The link really doesn't work and is not just [geo-blocked](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geo-blocking). To double-check this, please follow our [Stream Testing](#stream-testing) guidelines.

An issue without a valid link will be closed immediately.

> ### Finding of broken streams

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Finding broken streams
```
Same comment than above.

# Contributing Guide

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Contribution](#contribution)
  - [Submitting a new stream](#submitting-a-new-stream)
  - [Fixing descriptions](#fixing-descriptions)
  - [Reporting of broken streams](#reporting-of-broken-streams)
  - [Finding of broken streams](#finding-of-broken-streams)

>   - [Removing infrighting content](#removing-infrighting-content)

Author: ```suggestion
  - [Removing infringing content](#removing-infringing-content)
```

> - [Requirements](#requirements)

Author: ```suggestion
- [Link Requirements](#link-requirements)
```

> - [Validation](#validation)

Author: ```suggestion
- [Stream Validation](#stream-validation)
```

  - [How do I know if the stream is eligible?](#how-do-i-know-if-the-stream-is-eligible)
  - [Examples](#examples)

>   - [Testing](#testing)

Author: ```suggestion
  - [Stream Testing](#stream-testing)
```

- [Stream Description Scheme](#stream-description-scheme)
- [Playlist Structure](#playlist-structure)
- [Project Structure](#project-structure)
- [Scripts](#scripts)
- [Workflows](#workflows)

## Introduction

> **iptv-org** is more than just a repository for sharing currently available links in a playlist format. After years of commitment and moderation practices it has evolved into a knowledge base for [streams](https://github.com/iptv-org/iptv/tree/master/streams), [feeds and their descriptions](https://iptv-org.github.io/), [program guide sources](https://github.com/iptv-org/epg) and even the [API](https://github.com/iptv-org/api) updated daily for semi-automated distribution and moderation. Thus, to keep all available data in order, strict structural requirements must be followed and some contribution standards must be set. Learn more in the following topic [How iptv-org works](https://github.com/orgs/iptv-org/discussions/1318)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**iptv-org** is more than just a repository for sharing currently available links in a playlist format. After years of commitment and moderation practices it has evolved into a knowledge base for [streams](https://github.com/iptv-org/iptv/tree/master/streams), [channels](https://iptv-org.github.io/), [program guide sources](https://github.com/iptv-org/epg) and the [API](https://github.com/iptv-org/api) for developers. And to keep all this data organized, we need to follow strict structural requirements and set certain standards for participants.
```

I don't think it's a good idea to include the link to "How iptv-org works" in the description. It's already outdated in places, and I simply won't be able to keep it up to date.

Author: I wanted to emphasis that we set a high standard not because we're picky, but because it's now an automated system that requires order and regulates itself semi-automaticly with a human checks

Reviewer 2: Updated.

## Contribution
### Submitting a new stream

Before submitting a new stream make sure to acknowledge the [Link Requirements](#link-requirements) section and follow the [Stream Validation](#stream-validation) section of this Guide.

🤚 Requests that do not comply with those sections will be closed immediately!

You have several options:

- Create a new request by manually filling this [form](https://github.com/iptv-org/iptv/issues/new?assignees=&labels=streams:add&projects=&template=1_streams_add.yml&title=Add%3A+) and if approved, the link will automatically be added to the playlist on the next update.
- Use https://iptv-org.github.io/ to submit a stream for appropriate feed of the channel. To do that find a channel and press the feed link.
  <img width="892" height="70" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c1bee428-d8a5-4c80-b961-43f1f25e2be4" />

  Then press a ➕ sign if it is required to add an additional feed first or press 3 dots over appropriate feed and choose Add Stream.

>   <img width="770" height="387" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/097087a1-da7e-4159-849d-baef552a0918" />

Reviewer: in the second image here, need to use screen shot with `add stream` instead. i have seen many get confused between `add stream` and `add feed` <img width="770" height="387" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/097087a1-da7e-4159-849d-baef552a0918" />

https://github.com/iptv-org/iptv/pull/38742/changes#r3367883638

  
  This will submit a filled form that will be reviewed the same way.
- Add the link to the playlist directly using a [pull request](https://github.com/iptv-org/iptv/pulls).

> Follow the [Playlist Structure](#playlist-structure) and [Stream Description Scheme](#stream-description-scheme) if you have considered that way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the [Playlist Structure](#playlist-structure) and [Stream Description Scheme](#stream-description-scheme) if you choose this method.
```

> If you're adding an alternative link please do not replace any other link that might be working for some.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before submitting a new feed link, please make sure it meets the following requirements:

- Make sure the link has not been submitted into the repository before. This can be done by searching the [repository](https://github.com/search?q=repo%3Aiptv-org%2Fiptv+http%3A%2F%2Fexample.com&type=code) or [website](https://iptv-org.github.io/).
- Each submitted stream link must have a registered Channel & Feed ID (eg: `ChannelID@FeedID`) in our database. A complete list of channels and feeds can be found at [iptv-org.github.io](https://iptv-org.github.io). If it's not present, please follow the [Database Contributing Guide](https://github.com/iptv-org/database/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) to add it.
- Channels under DMCA takedown notices or broadcasting copyrighted content (such as the Champions League) will not be accepted (see the [blocklist](https://github.com/iptv-org/database/blob/master/data/blocklist.csv) for details).
- The same applies to channels that are known to partially or fully broadcast [NSFW](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Not_safe_for_work) content.
- Links must not have any effective restrictions that limit viewers by authorization, by viewer count or by designated IP.
- Test period links are not permitted.
- It should be possible to play the stream using VLC media player (see the [FAQ](https://github.com/iptv-org/iptv/blob/master/FAQ.md) for more details).
- If the host server requires a specific user-agent and/or a referer, is geo-blocked or may have downtimes, you should represent that in your contribution.
- If possible please provide an adaptive link that covers every available resolution for a broadcast.

If everything is in order, you have a few options:

- Create a new request by filling this [form](https://github.com/iptv-org/iptv/issues/new?assignees=&labels=streams:add&projects=&template=1_streams_add.yml&title=Add%3A+) and if approved, the link will automatically be added to the playlist on the next update.
- Add the link to the playlist directly using a [pull request](https://github.com/iptv-org/iptv/pulls). If you choose this option, please follow the [Playlist Structure](#playlist-structure) and [Stream Description Scheme](#stream-description-scheme). If you add an alternative link, please do not replace the existing one with it, as it may still work for other users.
```

### Fixing descriptions

Most of the stream description (channel name, feed name, categories, languages, broadcast area, logo) is loaded from [iptv-org/database](https://github.com/iptv-org/database) using the stream ID.

First of all, make sure that the desired stream has the correct ID. A full list of all supported channels and their corresponding IDs can be found on [iptv-org.github.io](https://iptv-org.github.io/). To change the stream ID of any link in the playlist, just fill out this [form](https://github.com/iptv-org/iptv/issues/new?assignees=&labels=streams%3Aedit&projects=&template=2_streams_edit.yml&title=Edit%3A+).

> If, however, you have found an error in the database itself, please refer to: [How to edit channel description?](https://github.com/iptv-org/database/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#how-to-edit-channel-description)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If, however, you have found an error in the database itself, please refer to: [How to edit a database entry?](https://github.com/iptv-org/database/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#how-to-edit-a-database-entry)
```

If, however, you have found an error in the database itself, please refer to: [How to edit channel description?](https://github.com/iptv-org/database/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#how-to-edit-channel-description)

> ### How to report a broken stream?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Reporting of broken streams
```

Fill out this [form](https://github.com/iptv-org/iptv/issues/new?assignees=&labels=streams:remove&projects=&template=3_streams_report.yml&title=Broken%3A+) and we'll verify and remove it.

The only thing before publishing your report is to make sure that:

- The link is still in our playlists. You can verify this by [searching](https://github.com/search?q=repo%3Aiptv-org%2Fiptv+http%3A%2F%2Fexample.com&type=code) the repository.
- The link really doesn't work and is not just [geo-blocked](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geo-blocking). To double-check this, please follow our [Testing](#testing) guidelines.

An issue without a valid link will be closed immediately.

> ### How to find a broken stream?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Finding of broken streams
```

- Channels under DMCA takedown notices or broadcasting copyrighted content (such as the Champions League) at any time will not be accepted, see the [blocklist](https://github.com/iptv-org/database/blob/master/data/blocklist.csv) for details.
- The same applies to channels that are known to partially or fully broadcast [NSFW](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Not_safe_for_work) content.
- User-submitted links must not have any effective restrictions that limit viewers by authorization, by viewer count or by designated IP.
- Test period links are not permitted.
- User-submitted links must open in VLC media player (see the [FAQ](https://github.com/iptv-org/iptv/blob/master/FAQ.md) for more details).
- If the host server requires a specific user-agent and/or a referer, is geo-blocked or may have downtimes, you should represent that in your contribution (see the [Stream Description Scheme](#stream-description-scheme)).
- If possible please provide an adaptive link that covers every available resolution for a broadcast.
- Follow the [Playlist Structure](#playlist-structure) in case of contributing by pull requests.

## Stream Validation

### How do I know if the stream is eligible?

> Make sure you can find the origin of the broadcast using your favourite search engine or by following the domain of broadcast. If you used to see the channel under paywalls or subscription offers, it may likely be a copyright infringement. If you see a service with a probe period and available plans or you have found a link having unreadable parts of it in someone else's playlist, it's likely to expire soon. We typically look for pages with publicly accessible video players, as these are more likely to host broadcasts intended for public viewing. However, even in such cases, the underlying stream URLs are often protected and may only be accessible within your authenticated session. Examples of valid streams are shown below.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Make sure you can find the origin of the broadcast using your favourite search engine or by following the domain of broadcast. If you used to see the channel under paywalls or subscription offers, it may likely involve a copyright infringement. If you see a service with a time trial or you have found a link having unreadable parts of it in someone else's playlist, it's likely to expire soon. We typically look for pages with publicly accessible video players, as these are more likely to host broadcasts intended for public viewing. However, even in such cases, the underlying stream URLs are often protected and may only be accessible within your authenticated session. Examples of valid streams are shown below.
```

Wording

### Examples

✅ Valid links usually have a format like so

> - ```https://cdn.domain.com/channelname/chunks or playlist or any other name.m3u8 or mpd```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- ```https://cdn.domain.com/channelname/chunks or playlist or any other name, followed by .m3u8 or mpd```
```

- ```https://cdn.domain.com.com/live?stream=channelname```
- ```http://10.113.179.1:port/udp/238.1.1.1:port```
- ```rtmp://10.113.179.1:port/prefix/channel```
- ```http://10.113.179.1:port/play/a16j```

❌ Links with expiring sessions may contain one or more arguments that will have a hash or random numeric value like so: 
- ```?nimblesessionid=21683442```
- ```&authid=```
- ```&key=txiptv```
- ```&ip=10.113.179.1```
- ```&secret=f8z1l7gk```
- ```&e=1783194414```
- ```&st=Lz1QtjfblUmkawUbk1Mx6w```
- ```&token=9f192891-eca5-2435-b9cb-147f376cdc1e```
- ```&hmac=3295a8e67dcf75af313061a17c3dad11```

There might be notable examples when a session must be created but it doesn't impose any meaningful limits, eg. :

```https://bl.rutube.ru/livestream/id/index.m3u8?e=2070278263&s=sessiontoken&scheme=https```

> where there only limitation is that the session will expire in 2035. You can check unix timestamps [here](https://www.epochconverter.com/).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
where the only limitation is that the session will expire in 2035. You can check unix timestamps [here](https://www.epochconverter.com/).
```

❌ Links from subscription based services often be in a form like so:
- ```https://sketchydomain.xyz:port/username/password/channelID```
- ```http://cdn.domain.com/credentialhash/channelID/index.m3u8```
- ```http://cdn.domain.com/channelID/mpegts?token=CTkHfXdAqvPcwq```

> If changing channelID to almost any value within a range of hundreds or thousands of IDs results in a valid stream from a different channel, then it likely comes from a leaked account or a trial account

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If changing channelID to almost any value within a range of hundreds or thousands of IDs results in a valid stream from a different channel, then it likely comes from a leaked account or a trial account.
```
Nitpicking, adding a dot.

### Stream Testing

> - If it doesn't launch, try open the link in your browser. Press F12, go to the "Network" tab, and filter requests for `m3u` or `mpd`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- If it doesn't launch, try opening the link in your browser. Press F12, go to the "Network" tab, and filter requests for `m3u` or `mpd`.
```
either "try opening" or "try to open".

https://example.com/playlist.m3u8
```

- Watch the broadcast for at least a few minutes. Make sure playback is stable and does not stop abruptly at some point.
- Try restarting the stream. Make sure it's not looping on a repeating segment and is still available.
- Alternatively, you can use services like [streamtest.in](https://streamtest.in/tools/stream-test).
- To check if the stream link is geo-blocked you can use services like [check-host.net](https://check-host.net/check-http).

## Stream Description Scheme

For a stream to be approved, its description must follow this template:

```m3u
#EXTINF:-1 tvg-id="STREAM_ID",STREAM_TITLE (QUALITY) [LABEL]
STREAM_URL
```

| Attribute      | Description                                                                                                                                                                | Required | Valid values                                 |
| -------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------- | -------------------------------------------- |

> | `STREAM_ID`    | Stream ID consisting of channel ID and feed ID. Full list of supported channels with corresponding ID can be found on [iptv-org.github.io](https://iptv-org.github.io/). | Optional | `<channel_id>` or `<channel_id>@<feed_id>`   |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `STREAM_ID`    | Stream ID consisting of channel ID and feed ID. Full list of supported channels with corresponding ID can be found on [iptv-org.github.io](https://iptv-org.github.io/).  | Optional | `<channel_id>` or `<channel_id>@<feed_id>`   |
```

> | `STREAM_ID`    | Stream ID consisting of channel ID and feed ID. Full list of supported channels with corresponding ID can be found on [iptv-org.github.io](https://iptv-org.github.io/).  | Optional | `<channel_id>` or `<channel_id>@<feed_id>`   |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `STREAM_ID`    | Stream ID consisting of channel ID and feed ID. Full list of supported channels with corresponding ID can be found on [iptv-org.github.io](https://iptv-org.github.io/).   | Optional | `<channel_id>` or `<channel_id>@<feed_id>`   |
```

After that, all you need to do is report the broken streams you found via the [form](https://github.com/iptv-org/iptv/issues/new?assignees=&labels=streams:remove&projects=&template=3_streams_report.yml&title=Broken%3A+) or create a [pull request](https://github.com/iptv-org/iptv/pulls) with updated playlists.

### Removing infrighting content

To request removal of a link to a channel from the repository, you need to fill out this [form](https://github.com/iptv-org/iptv/issues/new?assignees=&labels=removal+request&projects=&template=6_copyright-claim.yml&title=Remove%3A+) and wait for the request to be reviewed (this usually takes no more than 1 business day). And if the request is approved, links to the channel will be immediately removed from the repository.

The channel will also be added to our [blocklist](https://github.com/iptv-org/database/blob/master/data/blocklist.csv) to avoid its appearance in our playlists in the future.

Please note that we only accept removal requests from channel owners and their official representatives, all other requests will be closed immediately.

> ## Requirements

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Link Requirements
```

- The same applies to channels that are known to partially or fully broadcast NSFW content (nudity & extreme acts), see the [Channel blocklist](https://iptv-org.github.io/?q=is_nsfw%3Atrue), the [History of related issues](https://github.com/iptv-org/database/blob/master/data/blocklist.csv) and https://github.com/iptv-org/iptv/issues/15723 for more details.
- User-submitted links must not have any effective restrictions that limit viewers by authorization, by viewer count or by designated IP.
- Test period links are not permitted.
- User-submitted links must open in VLC media player (see the [FAQ](https://github.com/iptv-org/iptv/blob/master/FAQ.md) for more details).
- If the host server requires a specific user-agent and/or a referer, is geo-blocked or may have downtimes, you should represent that in your contribution (see the [Stream Description Scheme](#stream-description-scheme)).
- If possible please provide an adaptive link that covers every available resolution for a broadcast.
- Follow the [Playlist Structure](#playlist-structure) in case of contributing by pull requests.

> ## Validation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Stream Validation
```

### How do I know if the stream is eligible?

> Make sure you can find the origin of the broadcast using your favourite search engine or by following the domain of broadcast. If you used to see the channel under paywalls or subscription offers, it may likely be a copyright infringement. If you see a service with a probe period and available plans or you have found an unrecognizable link in someone else's playlist, it's likely to expire soon. Streams or services that have publicly available videoplayers are likely to perform publicly-intended broadcasts. Odds are your link will still be session protected and will only be available to you.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To find out if the stream is suitable make sure you can find its origin using your favourite search engine or by following the domain of broadcast. If you used to see the channel under paywalls or subscription offers, it may likely be a copyright infringement. If you see a service with a probe period and available plans or you have found an unrecognizable link in someone else's playlist, it's likely to expire soon. Streams or services that have publicly available videoplayers are likely to perform publicly-intended broadcasts.
```

Author: Nope, we still have to emphasis that publicly available videoplayers do not always offer strams intended for sharing somehow. Otherwise you'll see a flood of nimblesession and tokenized links. That's one of the most common missbeliefs out there

Reviewer 2: So where do you suggest people look for links?

Author: Wherever they would be able to find one that is meant to be distributed

- ```?nimblesessionid=21683442```
- ```&authid=```
- ```&key=txiptv```
- ```&ip=10.113.179.1```
- ```&secret=f8z1l7gk```
- ```&e=1783194414```
- ```&st=Lz1QtjfblUmkawUbk1Mx6w```
- ```&token=9f192891-eca5-2435-b9cb-147f376cdc1e```
- ```&hmac=3295a8e67dcf75af313061a17c3dad11```

There might be notable examples when a session must be created but it doesn't impose any meaningful limits, eg. :

```https://bl.rutube.ru/livestream/id/index.m3u8?e=2070278263&s=sessiontoken&scheme=https```

where there only limitation is that the session will expire in 2035. You can check unix timestamps [here](https://www.epochconverter.com/).

❌ Links from subscription based services often be in a form like so:
- ```https://sketchydomain.xyz:port/username/password/channelID```
- ```http://cdn.domain.com/credentialhash/channelID/index.m3u8```
- ```http://cdn.domain.com/channelID/mpegts?token=CTkHfXdAqvPcwq```

If changing channelID to almost any value within a range of hundreds or thousands of IDs results in a valid stream from a different channel, then it likely comes from a leaked account or a trial account

> ### Testing

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Stream Testing
```

- Open [VLC media player](https://www.videolan.org/vlc/index.html) and make use of your link.

> - If it doesn't launch, open your browser and press F12, go to the Network tab, and filter requests for m3u or mpd.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If it doesn't launch, try open the link in your browser. Press F12, go to the "Network" tab, and filter requests for `m3u` or `mpd`.
```

  <img width="338" height="256" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/2eec24df-21a4-4a77-8a96-4f967baf2548" />
  
  Switch to Headers tab and scroll down to copy the user-agent and the referer if needed (see the [Stream Description Scheme](#stream-description-scheme)).

>   <img width="660" height="425" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6e0c4453-3e56-4ad3-86a7-c9430c33c188" />

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Switch to "Headers" tab, scroll down and copy the "User-Agent" and the "Referer".
 <img width="660" height="425" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6e0c4453-3e56-4ad3-86a7-c9430c33c188" />
 
 Next, open any text editor of your choice and paste the link with the parameters you found into it, like this:
 
 ```txt
#EXTM3U
#EXTINF:-1,Example TV
#EXTVLCOPT:http-referrer=https://example.com
#EXTVLCOPT:http-user-agent=Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 10.0; Win64; x64)
https://example.com/playlist.m3u8
```

Save the file with the `.m3u` extension and try opening it in VLC player again.
```

- Watch the broadcast for at least a few minutes. Make sure playback is stable and does not stop abruptly at some point.
- Try restarting the stream. Make sure it's not looping on a repeating segment and is still available.
- Try starting a stream simultaneously on a different device or network (e.g. mobile network or via [proxy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Proxy_server) or [VPN](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virtual_private_network)).

> - Alternatively, you can use https://streamtest.in/tools/stream-test.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Alternatively, you can use services like [streamtest.in](https://streamtest.in/tools/stream-test).
```

> - To check if the stream link is geo-blocked you can use https://check-host.net/check-http and make sure the link provided is not returning errors globally.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- To check if the stream link is geo-blocked you can use services like [check-host.net](https://check-host.net/check-http).
```

- ```https://sketchydomain.xyz:port/username/password/channelID```
- ```http://cdn.domain.com/credentialhash/channelID/index.m3u8```
- ```http://cdn.domain.com/channelID/mpegts?token=CTkHfXdAqvPcwq```

If changing channelID to almost any value within a range of hundreds or thousands of IDs results in a valid stream from a different channel, then it likely comes from a leaked account or a trial account

### Stream Testing
- If it doesn't launch, try open the link in your browser. Press F12, go to the "Network" tab, and filter requests for `m3u` or `mpd`.
- Open [VLC media player](https://www.videolan.org/vlc/index.html) and make use of your link.
- If it doesn't launch, open your browser and press F12, go to the Network tab, and filter requests for m3u or mpd.
  <img width="338" height="256" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/2eec24df-21a4-4a77-8a96-4f967baf2548" />
  
  Switch to Headers tab and scroll down to copy the user-agent and the referer if needed (see the [Stream Description Scheme](#stream-description-scheme)).
  <img width="660" height="425" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6e0c4453-3e56-4ad3-86a7-c9430c33c188" />

> - Watch the broadcast for at least a few minutes. Make sure playback is stable and does not stop abruptly at some point.

Reviewer 2: I'm a bit confused. Is this section for people whose links aren't working, or is it a guide for contributors who want to add their links to the playlist?

Author: > I'm a bit confused. Is this section for people whose links aren't working, or is it a guide for contributors who want to add their links to the playlist?

For those who will not only add their links to the playlist but also test in VLC and at times find an obstacle (requirement of user-agent and/or refferer). May also be suitable in attempt to fix broken link

Reviewer 3: I agree that it could be moved to the FAQ, under the name "How can I make sure the link I want to add is properly working ?"

After that, all you need to do is report the broken streams you found via the [form](https://github.com/iptv-org/iptv/issues/new?assignees=&labels=streams:remove&projects=&template=3_streams_report.yml&title=Broken%3A+) or create a [pull request](https://github.com/iptv-org/iptv/pulls) with updated playlists.

### Removing infrighting content

To request removal of a link to a channel from the repository, you need to fill out this [form](https://github.com/iptv-org/iptv/issues/new?assignees=&labels=removal+request&projects=&template=6_copyright-claim.yml&title=Remove%3A+) and wait for the request to be reviewed (this usually takes no more than 1 business day). And if the request is approved, links to the channel will be immediately removed from the repository.

The channel will also be added to our [blocklist](https://github.com/iptv-org/database/blob/master/data/blocklist.csv) to avoid its appearance in our playlists in the future.

Please note that we only accept removal requests from channel owners and their official representatives, all other requests will be closed immediately.

## Link Requirements

Before submitting new streams you should verify the following:

> - Make sure the link has not been submitted into the repository before. This can be done by searching the [repository](https://github.com/search?q=repo%3Aiptv-org%2Fiptv+http%3A%2F%2Fexample.com&type=code) or [iptv-org website](https://iptv-org.github.io/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Make sure the link has not been submitted into the repository before. This can be done by searching the [repository](https://github.com/search?q=repo%3Aiptv-org%2Fiptv+http%3A%2F%2Fexample.com&type=code) or the [website](https://iptv-org.github.io/).
```

Reviewer 3: or "the" website

Reviewer 2: fixed

> - Each submitted stream link must have a registered Channel & Feed ID (eg: Channel@Feed) in the [iptv-org's Database](https://iptv-org.github.io). If it's not present, please follow the [Database Contributing Guide](https://github.com/iptv-org/database/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) to add it. Otherwise, your stream links won't be delivered into automated playlists and won't be sorted out properly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Each submitted stream link must have a registered Channel & Feed ID (eg: `ChannelID@FeedID`) in our database. A complete list of channels and feeds can be found at [iptv-org.github.io](https://iptv-org.github.io). If it's not present, please follow the [Database Contributing Guide](https://github.com/iptv-org/database/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) to add it.
```
Links without a valid Stream ID will not pass the automatic check and will not be added to the playlist anyway.

Author: I'm keeping this sentence for those who will submit a PR with empty tvg-ids for reasons

Reviewer 2: But links without a tvg-id end up in the generated playlists just like the others.

Author: You mean unsorted.m3u or country playlists?

Reviewer 2: They are added to both the main `index.m3u` and the `countries/undefined.m3u`, `languages/undefined.m3u`, and `categories/undefined.m3u`.

Author: ```suggestion
- Each submitted stream link must have a registered Channel & Feed ID (eg: `ChannelID@FeedID`) in our database. A complete list of channels and feeds can be found at [iptv-org.github.io](https://iptv-org.github.io). If it's not present, please follow the [Database Contributing Guide](https://github.com/iptv-org/database/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) to add it. Streams submitted by PRs without valid ID will not reach mainstream playlists targeting a category, language or broadcast area.
```

Reviewer 2: Well written.

- User-submitted links to stream URLs shall be intended to be publicly available by stream provider and the copyright holders.

> - Channels under DMCA takedown notices or broadcasting copyrighted content (such as the Champions League) at any time will not be accepted, see the [Channel blocklist](https://iptv-org.github.io/?q=is_blocked%3Atrue) and the [History of related issues](https://github.com/iptv-org/database/blob/master/data/blocklist.csv) for details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Channels under DMCA takedown notices or broadcasting copyrighted content (such as the Champions League) at any time will not be accepted, see the [blocklist](https://github.com/iptv-org/database/blob/master/data/blocklist.csv) for details.
```

> - The same applies to channels that are known to partially or fully broadcast NSFW content (nudity & extreme acts), see the [Channel blocklist](https://iptv-org.github.io/?q=is_nsfw%3Atrue), the [History of related issues](https://github.com/iptv-org/database/blob/master/data/blocklist.csv) and https://github.com/iptv-org/iptv/issues/15723 for more details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The same applies to channels that are known to partially or fully broadcast [NSFW](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Not_safe_for_work) content.
```

> 
> ## Link Requirements
> 
> 
> Before submitting new streams you should verify the following:
> 
> - Make sure the link has not been submitted into the repository before. This can be done by searching the [repository](https://github.com/search?q=repo%3Aiptv-org%2Fiptv+http%3A%2F%2Fexample.com&type=code) or [iptv-org website](https://iptv-org.github.io/).
> - Each submitted stream link must have a registered Channel & Feed ID (eg: Channel@Feed) in the [iptv-org's Database](https://iptv-org.github.io). If it's not present, please follow the [Database Contributing Guide](https://github.com/iptv-org/database/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) to add it. Otherwise, your stream links won't be delivered into automated playlists and won't be sorted out properly.
> - User-submitted links to stream URLs shall be intended to be publicly available by stream provider and the copyright holders.
> - Channels under DMCA takedown notices or broadcasting copyrighted content (such as the Champions League) at any time will not be accepted, see the [Channel blocklist](https://iptv-org.github.io/?q=is_blocked%3Atrue) and the [History of related issues](https://github.com/iptv-org/database/blob/master/data/blocklist.csv) for details.
> - The same applies to channels that are known to partially or fully broadcast NSFW content (nudity & extreme acts), see the [Channel blocklist](https://iptv-org.github.io/?q=is_nsfw%3Atrue), the [History of related issues](https://github.com/iptv-org/database/blob/master/data/blocklist.csv) and https://github.com/iptv-org/iptv/issues/15723 for more details.
> - User-submitted links must not have any effective restrictions that limit viewers by authorization, by viewer count or by designated IP.
> - Test period links are not permitted.
> - User-submitted links must open in VLC media player (see the [FAQ](https://github.com/iptv-org/iptv/blob/master/FAQ.md) for more details).
> - If the host server requires a specific user-agent and/or a referer, is geo-blocked or may have downtimes, you should represent that in your contribution (see the [Stream Description Scheme](#stream-description-scheme)).
> - If possible please provide an adaptive link that covers every available resolution for a broadcast.
> - Follow the [Playlist Structure](#playlist-structure) in case of contributing by pull requests.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

## Stream Validation

### How do I know if the stream is eligible?

> Make sure you can find the origin of the broadcast using your favourite search engine or by following the domain of broadcast. If you used to see the channel under paywalls or subscription offers, it may likely be a copyright infringement. If you see a service with a probe period and available plans or you have found an unrecognizable link in someone else's playlist, it's likely to expire soon. Streams or services that have publicly available videoplayers are likely to perform publicly-intended broadcasts. Odds are your link will still be session protected and will only be available to you.

Reviewer 2: Since everything here is already listed in the Link Requirements above, I think we can remove this section entirely.

### Stream Testing

- If it doesn't launch, try open the link in your browser. Press F12, go to the "Network" tab, and filter requests for `m3u` or `mpd`.
- Open [VLC media player](https://www.videolan.org/vlc/index.html) and make use of your link.
- If it doesn't launch, open your browser and press F12, go to the Network tab, and filter requests for m3u or mpd.
  <img width="338" height="256" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/2eec24df-21a4-4a77-8a96-4f967baf2548" />
  
  Switch to "Headers" tab, scroll down and copy the "User-Agent" and the "Referer".
 <img width="660" height="425" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6e0c4453-3e56-4ad3-86a7-c9430c33c188" />
 
 Next, open any text editor of your choice and paste the link with the parameters you found into it, like this:
 
 ```txt
#EXTM3U
#EXTINF:-1,Example TV
#EXTVLCOPT:http-referrer=https://example.com
#EXTVLCOPT:http-user-agent=Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 10.0; Win64; x64)
https://example.com/playlist.m3u8

> 

Reviewer: need to add ``` below the url here.

- Watch the broadcast for at least a few minutes. Make sure playback is stable and does not stop abruptly at some point.
- Try restarting the stream. Make sure it's not looping on a repeating segment and is still available.
- Alternatively, you can use services like [streamtest.in](https://streamtest.in/tools/stream-test).
- Alternatively, you can use https://streamtest.in/tools/stream-test.

> - To check if the stream link is geo-blocked you can use services like [check-host.net](https://check-host.net/check-http).

Reviewer 2: And since the remaining two sections are not required reading before making a contribution, they could probably be moved to the FAQ.

Author: So you want Members to do that stuff or to send two files for people that won't follow those sections?

Reviewer 2: I think that if a request doesn't meet the requirements, it's enough to label it and close it. And if anyone has further questions, you can redirect them to the "Contributing Guide" or "FAQ". That's essentially how it works right now.

Author: Exactly. And that's why it's reasonable to provide one file. And if the Contributing Guide is not required reading before making a contribution that kind of defeats the purpose of it's existance as an argument why something wasn't approved and what is expected

Reviewer 2: I suggest moving only the "Examples" and "Stream Testing" sections to the FAQ. Everything else should remain in the guide.

Author: Logically, those sections are not frequently asked about unless you actually contribute and need a guidance to raise the approval chance

Reviewer 2: Well, I interpret "Examples" as "How do I determine if a link is intended for public viewing?" and "Stream Testing" as "Where can I find the User-Agent and Referer for a link?". I don't know how often these questions come up, but if you think this information should be in the repository, we could certainly add them to the FAQ.

Author: >I interpret "Examples" as "How do I determine if a link is intended for public viewing?"

Indeed. This question should come up before a decision to start the submission, not any time else. Hence, it must be a part of guidance.

>and "Stream Testing" as "Where can I find the User-Agent and Referer for a link?"

It's not the only purpose of this section and may also come handy if we stick to a rule "works in any player as good as VLC". Any member can block a link as not working one without any further judging and attempts to revive the link, so anyone willing to submit is supposed to put an effort as much as they can

Reviewer 2: I’m not suggesting we delete this text. I’m just suggesting we move it to a separate file and add links to it from the existing rules:

- User-submitted links to stream URLs must be publicly available as intended by the stream provider and the copyright holders.
- User-submitted links must not have any restrictions that limit viewers based on authorization, viewer count, or specific IP addresses.
- If the host server requires a specific user-agent and/or a referrer, is geo-blocked, or may experience downtime, you should indicate that in your post  

If you feel that the FAQ isn't suitable for this, we can just create a new file for all these tips.

Author: What problem does the separation solve? We have already moved the text as links to a later part of the document

Reviewer 2: My sole goal here is to ensure that the guide continues to contain only the bare minimum of information necessary for working with this repository. That's the only way there's even a small chance that people will actually read it. Again, if someone is interested in the topic, they'll find places to read about it besides our repository.

Author: I don't see the guide to be meaningful if it doesn't provide clearance for the way we think and stuff we do before making a decision to do something. I see no achievement in "finding places" for essential knowledge and frankly I don't expect everyone to be that much interested in making a research between at least three? documents. Most people expect a single clear instruction for whatever they try to acomplish. In fact, if some can't completely follow the document the result is predictable and that better be one place

Reviewer 2: Well, I guess we have different views on the purpose of this guide. For me, it’s not a place to learn something new, but rather a purely practical document that can be referenced in the requests. But maybe it's just me, and the rest of the community actually wants these changes.

Reviewer: >My sole goal here is to ensure that the guide continues to contain only the bare minimum of information necessary for working with this repository.

Yea, I agree these two sections could be moved to FAQ section and be linked here. These two sections are extra information that needs to be read when in doubt or for new users.

The website could also have some helper links that leads to the contributing/faq wherever necessary.

Author: @BellezaEmporium @Alstruit @Pecaquito @Archrootsda @RidhoBagus2007 @CasperMcFadden95

Reviewer 3: > I don't see the guide to be meaningful if it doesn't provide clearance for the way we think and stuff we do before making a decision to do something. I see no achievement in "finding places" for essential knowledge and frankly I don't expect everyone to be that much interested in making a research between at least three? documents. Most people expect a single clear instruction for whatever they try to acomplish. In fact, if some can't completely follow the document the result is predictable and that better be one place

I personally see the contributing guide as a compilation of best practices in the repository for those who want to make PRs. Issues can also be added into the equation, but I seriously think that with the amount of automation and self-guidance we've provided with them, it's pretty much straightforward (unless the person doesn't know at all how to fill the items)

I don't mind having a document that's complete, but you're bound to lose them mid-file rather than making it simple. Sometimes, making it too simple is making it complicated. Reverse also works.

Author: Hi, just following up. It looks like the discussion has run its course and there haven't been any new objections for about a week. Can we consider this resolved? @freearhey

Reviewer 2: My opinion hasn't changed. But if the other participants have decided to approve the request, you are free to ignore these suggestions.

After that, all you need to do is report the broken streams you found via the [form](https://github.com/iptv-org/iptv/issues/new?assignees=&labels=streams:remove&projects=&template=3_streams_report.yml&title=Broken%3A+) or create a [pull request](https://github.com/iptv-org/iptv/pulls) with updated playlists.

> ### Removing infrighting content

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Removing infringing content
```

- ```&token=9f192891-eca5-2435-b9cb-147f376cdc1e```
- ```&hmac=3295a8e67dcf75af313061a17c3dad11```

There might be notable examples when a session must be created but it doesn't impose any meaningful limits, eg. :

```https://bl.rutube.ru/livestream/id/index.m3u8?e=2070278263&s=sessiontoken&scheme=https```

where there only limitation is that the session will expire in 2035. You can check unix timestamps [here](https://www.epochconverter.com/).

❌ Links from subscription based services often be in a form like so:
- ```https://sketchydomain.xyz:port/username/password/channelID```
- ```http://cdn.domain.com/credentialhash/channelID/index.m3u8```
- ```http://cdn.domain.com/channelID/mpegts?token=CTkHfXdAqvPcwq```

If changing channelID to almost any value within a range of hundreds or thousands of IDs results in a valid stream from a different channel, then it likely comes from a leaked account or a trial account

### Stream Testing

- If it doesn't launch, try open the link in your browser. Press F12, go to the "Network" tab, and filter requests for `m3u` or `mpd`.
- Open [VLC media player](https://www.videolan.org/vlc/index.html) and make use of your link.

> - If it doesn't launch, open your browser and press F12, go to the Network tab, and filter requests for m3u or mpd.

Reviewer: this line is repeated

> - If it doesn't launch, open your browser and press F12, go to the Network tab, and filter requests for m3u or mpd.

Author: ```suggestion
```

After that, all you need to do is report the broken streams you found via the [form](https://github.com/iptv-org/iptv/issues/new?assignees=&labels=streams:remove&projects=&template=3_streams_report.yml&title=Broken%3A+) or create a [pull request](https://github.com/iptv-org/iptv/pulls) with updated playlists.

### Removing infringing content

To request removal of a link to a channel from the repository, you need to fill out this [form](https://github.com/iptv-org/iptv/issues/new?assignees=&labels=removal+request&projects=&template=6_copyright-claim.yml&title=Remove%3A+) and wait for the request to be reviewed (this usually takes no more than 1 business day). And if the request is approved, links to the channel will be immediately removed from the repository.

The channel will also be added to our [blocklist](https://github.com/iptv-org/database/blob/master/data/blocklist.csv) to avoid its appearance in our playlists in the future.

Please note that we only accept removal requests from channel owners and their official representatives, all other requests will be closed immediately.

## Link Requirements

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

You might not need more than 1 new line to separate the sections up.

### How to find a broken stream?

Follow the [Testing](#testing) guide. [VLC media player](https://www.videolan.org/vlc/) outputs all errors to the log (Tools -> Messages) so you'll be able to determine pretty accurately why a link isn't working.

> Another way to test links is to use the NPM script. To do this, first make sure you have [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en) installed on your system. Clone this repository, then go to the `iptv` folder using [Console](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Windows_Console) (or [Terminal](<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Terminal_(macOS)>) if you have macOS) and run the command:

Author: Has someone tested it on their own machine? Is there ffmpeg or any other dependency that must be manually downloaded?

Reviewer 2: No, you don't need to install ffmpeg for this script to work.

http://example.com/stream.m3u8
```

## Playlist Structure

> There are two types of playlists that can be found in [streams/](https://github.com/iptv-org/iptv/tree/master/streams) directory:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There are two types of playlists that can be found in the [streams/](https://github.com/iptv-org/iptv/tree/master/streams) directory:
```

> - By country origin playlists - imply that a studio broadcasting the channel has a headquarter in a select country. That doesn't necessarily imply that a stream is intended to be broadcasted for that select country.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Playlists by country of origin — indicate that the studio broadcasting the channel is headquartered in a particular country. This does not necessarily mean that the stream is intended for viewers in that same country.
```

> - By source playlists - imply that all of containing stream come from the same server or infrastructure and broadcast on behalf of the same provider.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Playlists by source - imply that all the containing streams comes from the same server or infrastructure and broadcast on behalf of the same provider.
```

Please consider that both playlists are not meant to be used by viewers and intended to stay that way for the ease of maintanance.

> All links in playlists are sorted automatically according to the information used from [Database](https://iptv-org.github.io/) so there is no need to sort them manually. For more info, see [Scripts](#scripts).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
All links in playlists are sorted automatically according to the information used from our [Database](https://iptv-org.github.io/) so there is no need to sort them manually. For more info, see [Scripts](#scripts).
```

> Each palylist file must

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Each playlist file must
```

- Have an .m3u extension

> - Start from an ```#EXTM3U``` string

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Start with a ```#EXTM3U``` header
```

Example:

> ```xml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```m3u
```

> #EXTINF:-1 tvg-id="ExampleTV.us@East",Example TV East (720p) [Geo-blocked] [Not 24/7]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#EXTINF:-1 tvg-id="ExampleTV.us@East",Example TV East (720p) [Geo-blocked]
```

The bot cannot read multiple labels at once.
